
Things to consider when storing data : location , type of data, retrieval

Data pipeline : Moves data into defined stages.
                Automated collection and storage - scheduled hourly,daily,weekly etc
                                                    triggered by event
                Monitored with generated alerts
                Necessary for big data projects
                Data engineers work to customize solutions depending on data,storage options and
                ultimate usage of the data
                
                ETL(Extract Transform Load) is popular framework for data pipelines.

                Transform : Joining data sources into 1 dataset
                            Converting data structures to fit database schemas 
                            Removing irrelevant data

                            Data preparation and exploration don't occur at this stage(Transform stage)
                          
                            Most popular tool to do this automation is Airflow. 


EDA(Exploratory Data Analysis) : Exploring the data
                                 Formulating hypotheses
                                 Assessing characteristics
                                 Visualizing 

Experiment in data science : 1. Form a question
                             2. Form a hypothesis
                             3. Collect data
                             4. Test the hypothesis with a statistical test
                             5. Interpret results

A/B Testing (Champion/Challenger Testing) : It's used to make a choice between 2 options

Statistical significance : result is likely not due to chance 
                            1. Given assumptions of statistical model.
                            2. Use statistical tests to calculate this.

A/B Testing Steps : 1. Picking a metric to track
                    2. Calculating sample size
                    3. Running the experiment
                    4. Checking for significance

Large sample sizes allow us to detect smaller changes.
Low sensitivity detects large differences.

Predictive modelling ranges in complexity from a linear equation to a deep learning algorithm.

Time series data : series of data points sequenced in time. 

Machine learning : Predictions from data

1) Supervised machine learning : Predictions from data with labels and features

   label : what we want to predict

   features : data that might predict the label

   split historical data into training and testing sets.

   testing data is used to evalute the model.

2) Clustering : divides unlabeled dataset into different categories
                 
                unsupervised machine learning

                uses only feature

                steps: select features
                       select number of clusters
                       use clusters to solve problems                                

